{"config":{"lang":["en"],"separator":"[\\s\\-]+","pipeline":["stopWordFilter"]},"docs":[{"location":"","title":"SIG/Kernel Wiki","text":"<p>The Kernel Special Interest Group focuses on maintaining mainline and long-term support kernels for Rocky Linux with additional configuration flags enabled for support of the latest hardware and features.</p>"},{"location":"#meetings-communications","title":"Meetings / Communications","text":"<p>SIG/Kernel meets the 2nd and 4th Thursday of each month at 14:00 UTC on Jitsi</p>"},{"location":"#members","title":"Members","text":"<ul> <li>Sherif Nagy</li> <li>Pablo Greco</li> <li>Mustafa Gezen</li> <li>Neil Hanlon</li> <li>Pratham Patel</li> </ul>"},{"location":"#links","title":"Links","text":"<ul> <li>https://git.rockylinux.org/sig/kernel/ - dist-git</li> <li>https://git.resf.org/sig_kernel/ - Wiki, issues, etc</li> <li>https://peridot.build.resf.org/13172560-6e5d-4e65-ae71-750f99096856 - Peridot - SIG Kernel 8</li> <li>https://peridot.build.resf.org/708f99fe-7e89-4241-959a-4ff259786b4a - Peridot - SIG Kernel 9</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2023-11-30/","title":"SIG/Kernel meeting 2023-11-30","text":""},{"location":"meetings/2023-11-30/#attendees","title":"Attendees","text":"<ul> <li>Sherif Nagy</li> <li>Neil Hanlon</li> <li>Pratham Patel</li> <li>Mustafa Gezen</li> <li>Pablo Greco</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2023-11-30/#discussions","title":"Discussions","text":"<ul> <li>This SIG does have some overlap with SIG/Altarch<ul> <li>Altarch was expecting to base on elrepo</li> <li>Two options: mainline and LTS. Default to Mainline</li> </ul> </li> <li>Two kernels right now:<ul> <li>LTS - manual, done by Pablo</li> <li>Mainline - kernel packer in Peridotv2<ul> <li>standard config from upstream doesn't support a lot of our SBCs</li> <li>intending to stay as close to upstream as possible<ul> <li>Upstream == fedora rawhide branch's RHEL configs</li> </ul> </li> <li>** Can we build a kernel-mainline artifact for altarch. e.g., kernel-mainline-sbc like kernel-rt/64ka **<ul> <li>Alternatively, we can create a new package for that name, but that is probably a lot of rework (?)</li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> <li>ELrepo contributions<ul> <li>What changes are we going to contribute?<ul> <li>There are some subset of changes which are beneficial to the overall ecosystem (like an SBC variant which is disabled by default)</li> <li>There's some stuff they might not want to use, and our specs will definitely change over time, not necessarily in step with ELRepo</li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> <li>Mainline variant for SBCs<ul> <li>Two options: subpackage of mainline or discrete packed kernel with a new name</li> <li>Leaning towards a discrete package which can be 'packed' directly into git.r.o/sig/altarch/ namespace, if needed</li> </ul> </li> <li>Idea on generating kernel configs for SBCs<ul> <li>For some sbcs we need to boot via dtb and not acpi so we require mainline kernel<ul> <li>usually require drivers which are disabled by default</li> </ul> </li> <li>https://git.resf.org/thefossguy/kernel-elrepo/commit/ff349cb79376d1ef4b80c4f8c2cb07703dc3db5e</li> <li>Pablo: Fedora is generally open to enabling these in those configs, and are usually enabled already<ul> <li>RHEL configs are a lot more conservative as they only enable what they need</li> <li>Harder to go from RHEL -&gt; working SBC than Fedora -&gt; working (typically), so this is the approach usually he takes</li> <li>ELRepo is in the middle :)</li> <li>Recommends starting with fedora than trying to work backwards<ul> <li>Pratham will try this</li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> <li>Also working on comparing 9.2 configs to 9.3 with prior work on sbc enablement<ul> <li>seems to be working (booting) where elrepo kernel was not</li> <li>need to work out when acpi is not there</li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> <li>https://gitlab.com/cki-project/kernel-ark</li> <li>Mainline kernel is 6.5 right now, we will go to 6.6<ul> <li>There is an issue with 6.7, we have issues w/ NX and shim</li> <li>There is an exception for Linux distributions right now, but we won't be able to sign 6.7 without a new shim</li> <li>We'll try and hold onto 6.6 for as long as we can -- and that's OK</li> <li>May need to have non-nx and nx-ready shim<ul> <li>:upside-down-face:</li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> <li>Sherif will be working on LTS 6.1 on x86 a bit this week</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2023-11-30/#action-items","title":"Action items","text":"<ul> <li>Documentation on SIG<ul> <li>Kernel packer - Mustafa<ul> <li>Specfile derrived from ELRepo</li> <li>Configs derrived from s.fp.o/rpms/kernel (rawhide branch, RHEL configs)</li> <li>Sources from kernel.org</li> </ul> </li> <li>Roles / Responsibilities - Neil / Sherif</li> <li>Onboarding - Neil</li> <li>Update membership - Neil</li> <li>Usage instructions<ul> <li>What packages are available, what are they, etc</li> </ul> </li> <li>Secureboot info</li> </ul> </li> <li>Update kernel-mainline to 6.6 - Neil / Mustafa</li> <li>Write ticket about shim / kernel 6.7 issues (for tracking and visibility) - Neil</li> <li>Setup and document creation of variant for mainline-sbc - Mustafa / Sherif / Neil</li> <li>Develop plan on how to contribute our changes to ELRepo - Neil</li> <li>LTS 6.1 not compiling on x86 - Sherif</li> <li>Write SIG update for Fresh Air newsletter - Neil</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2023-11-30/#old-business","title":"Old business","text":""},{"location":"meetings/2023-11-30/#2023-11-28","title":"2023-11-28","text":"<ul> <li>Published kernel-mainline! </li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-11/","title":"SIG/Kernel meeting 2024-01-11","text":""},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-11/#issues","title":"Issues","text":"<p>https://git.resf.org/sig_kernel/meta/issues</p>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-11/#attendees","title":"Attendees","text":"<ul> <li>Sherif Nagy</li> <li>Neil Hanlon</li> <li>Pablo Greco</li> <li>Brian Clemens</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-11/#old-business","title":"Old Business","text":"<ul> <li>Documentation on SIG<ul> <li>Kernel packer - Mustafa<ul> <li>Specfile derrived from ELRepo</li> <li>Configs derrived from s.fp.o/rpms/kernel (rawhide branch, RHEL configs)</li> <li>Sources from kernel.org</li> </ul> </li> <li>Roles / Responsibilities - Neil / Sherif</li> <li>Onboarding - Neil</li> <li>Update membership - Neil</li> <li>Usage instructions<ul> <li>What packages are available, what are they, etc</li> </ul> </li> <li>Secureboot info</li> </ul> </li> <li>Update kernel-mainline to 6.6 - Neil / Mustafa</li> <li>Write ticket about shim / kernel 6.7 issues (for tracking and visibility) - Neil</li> <li>Setup and document creation of variant for mainline-sbc - Mustafa / Sherif / Neil</li> <li>Develop plan on how to contribute our changes to ELRepo - Neil</li> <li>LTS 6.1 not compiling on x86 - Sherif<ul> <li>https://git.resf.org/sig_kernel/meta/issues/10</li> </ul> </li> <li>Write SIG update for Fresh Air newsletter - Neil</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-11/#discussions","title":"Discussions","text":"<ul> <li>LTS 6.1 not compiling on x86 - Sherif - Build-id problem</li> <li>How often will we build?<ul> <li>Once a month we want a SB build, try and build non-SB signed ones weekly (?) but don't release</li> </ul> </li> <li>Don't build with tools, don't build with UKI</li> <li>User Experience - for upgrading<ul> <li>don't do anything by default</li> <li>provide documentation and a bubblewrap CLI to help users select what they want to boot/upgrade/default</li> <li>add excludes to repos, manage repo enable/disable</li> </ul> </li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-11/#action-items","title":"Action items","text":"<ul> <li>Kernel packer for sbc variant</li> <li>Automation for kernel packer, Rocky 8</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-25/","title":"SIG/Kernel meeting 2024-01-25","text":""},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-25/#attendees","title":"Attendees:","text":"<ul> <li>Rafael Lee</li> <li>Sherif Nagy</li> <li>Jason Rodriguez</li> <li>Brian Clemens</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-25/#old-business","title":"Old Business:","text":"<ul> <li>Kernel 6.6.12 has been released and secureboot signed</li> <li>Pablo did fix LTS build with different binutils package</li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-25/#discussions","title":"Discussions:","text":"<ul> <li> <p>Sherif did talk about the SIGs and how SIG kernel interact and with SIG HPC, SIG altarch and fasttrack</p> </li> <li> <p>Rafael asked about what if we want to build a newer glibc , kernel or such, and the answer was, sure, it will always be in a SIG</p> </li> <li> <p>Few questions and explanation about NX and what does this means for SHIM and kernel-mainline</p> </li> </ul>"},{"location":"meetings/2024-01-25/#action-items","title":"Action items:","text":"<ul> <li>Add more info to the wiki</li> <li>Kernel packer for sbc variant</li> <li>Automation for kernel packer, Rocky 8</li> </ul>"}]}