# SIG/Kernel meeting 2024-01-11

### Issues 

https://git.resf.org/sig_kernel/meta/issues

## Attendees

* Sherif Nagy
* Neil Hanlon
* Pablo Greco
* Brian Clemens

## Old Business

* Documentation on SIG
    * Kernel packer - Mustafa
        * Specfile derrived from ELRepo
        * Configs derrived from s.fp.o/rpms/kernel (rawhide branch, RHEL configs)
        * Sources from kernel.org
    * Roles / Responsibilities - Neil / Sherif
    * Onboarding - Neil
    * Update membership - Neil
    * Usage instructions
        * What packages are available, what are they, etc
    * Secureboot info
* Update kernel-mainline to 6.6 - Neil / Mustafa
* Write ticket about shim / kernel 6.7 issues (for tracking and visibility) - Neil
* Setup and document creation of variant for mainline-sbc - Mustafa / Sherif / Neil
* Develop plan on how to contribute our changes to ELRepo - Neil
* LTS 6.1 not compiling on x86 - Sherif
    * https://git.resf.org/sig_kernel/meta/issues/10
* Write SIG update for Fresh Air newsletter - Neil

## Discussions

* LTS 6.1 not compiling on x86 - Sherif - Build-id problem
* How often will we build?
    * Once a month we want a SB build, try and build non-SB signed ones weekly (?) but don't release
* Don't build with tools, don't build with UKI
* User Experience - for upgrading
    * don't do anything by default
    * provide documentation and a bubblewrap CLI to help users select what they want to boot/upgrade/default
    * add excludes to repos, manage repo enable/disable

## Action items

* Kernel packer for sbc variant
* Automation for kernel packer, Rocky 8
